Software/Linux/README.md, before:

# Earth Rover Mini+ Host Development

## Build Example
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/frodobots-org/earth-rover-mini.git
cd earth-rover-mini/Software/Linux
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../toolchain.cmake ..
make
```

## Connect to Robot
- Install ADB on your development platform
- Search and connect the wireless network <b>frodobot_xxx</b>. The default password is <b>12345678</b>.
- Once the connection is established. Connect to your robot with adb
```bash
adb connect 192.168.11.1
adb shell
```

# Host Control Instructions

This section provides instructions on how to control the robot from a host computer for development and testing purposes.

---

## Control Mechanism

The robot is controlled via a **serial interface** using the custom **UART Control Protocol (UCP)** defined in `applications/ucp.h`.  
By sending formatted data packets to the robot's `uart3` port, you can:

- Control movement  
- Trigger calibration routines  
- Receive telemetry  

---

## Serial Port Settings

- **Baud Rate:** 115200  
- **Data Bits:** 8  
- **Parity:** None  
- **Stop Bits:** 1  

---

## Teleoperation (Manual Control)

To manually control the robot, send **`UCP_MOTOR_CTL` (ID: 0x02)** packets.  
These packets contain the desired **linear** and **angular velocity**.

---

## Control Packet Structure (`ucp_ctl_cmd_t`)

The command packet is composed of a **header**, a **payload**, and a **CRC checksum**.  
The **motor control payload** is defined as follows:

| Field     | Type      | Description                                                                 |
|-----------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `hd`      | `ucp_hd_t`| UCP Header (contains length, ID=0x02, index)                                |
| `speed`   | `int16_t` | Desired linear velocity. Positive = forward, negative = backward. Range: -100 to 100. |
| `angular` | `int16_t` | Desired angular velocity. Positive = right, negative = left. Range: -100 to 100. |
| `front_led` | `int16_t` | Controls the front LEDs (not fully implemented).                          |
| `back_led`  | `int16_t` | Controls the back LEDs (not fully implemented).                           |
| `...`       | `...`     | Reserved fields.                                                          |

---

## Getting Started: A Simple Teleop Example

Look to `src/examples/move.cpp`

# Camera Example

## Getting Started: Dual Camera Streaming Over RTSP

Look to `src/Examples/sample_demo_dual_camera.c`
#### Run the example code on the Earth Rover Mini
- Build Examples
- Push `sample_demo_dual_camera` to device via ADB
```
adb push sample_demo_dual_camera /tmp/
```
- Run example
```
adb shell /tmp/sample_demo_dual_camera -s 0 -W 1920 -H 1080 -w 720 -h 576 -f 30 -r 0 -s 1 -W 1920 -H 1080 -w 720 -h 576 -f 30 -r 0 -n 1 -b 1
```
#### Capture video from the Earth Rover Mini camera on the computer
- Connect with Earth Rover Mini with same local network.
- Use Python Opencv
```python
import cv2
'''
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/0  Front camera main-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/1  Front camera sub-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/2  Rear camera main-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/3  Rear camera sub-stream
'''
cap = cv2.VideoCapture("rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/0")
if not cap.isOpened():
    print("Failed to open RTSP stream")
    exit()
while True:
    ret, frame = cap.read()
    if not ret:
        print("Failed to read frame")
        break
    cv2.imshow("RTSP Stream", frame)
    if cv2.waitKey(1) & 0xFF == ord("q"):
        break

cap.release()
cv2.destroyAllWindows()
```

Commit message:

modify toolchain cmake and README

Software/Linux/README.md, after:

# Earth Rover Mini+ Host Development

## Install and Setup the toolchain
# Run this in the toolchain folder
```
cd earth-rover-mini/Software/Linux/toolchain
source ./env_install_toolchain.sh /opt/toolchain
cd ..
```
# Verify the compiler is in your PATH
```
which arm-rockchip830-linux-uclibcgnueabihf-g++
```
- You should see output like this: 
- /opt/toolchain/toolchain/bin/arm-rockchip830-linux-uclibcgnueabihf-g++
## Build Example
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/frodobots-org/earth-rover-mini.git
cd earth-rover-mini/Software/Linux
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../toolchain.cmake ..
make
```

## Connect to Robot
- Install ADB on your development platform
- Search and connect the wireless network <b>frodobot_xxx</b>. The default password is <b>12345678</b>.
- Once the connection is established. Connect to your robot with adb
```bash
adb connect 192.168.11.1
adb shell
```

# Host Control Instructions

This section provides instructions on how to control the robot from a host computer for development and testing purposes.

---

## Control Mechanism

The robot is controlled via a **serial interface** using the custom **UART Control Protocol (UCP)** defined in `applications/ucp.h`.  
By sending formatted data packets to the robot's `uart3` port, you can:

- Control movement  
- Trigger calibration routines  
- Receive telemetry  

---

## Serial Port Settings

- **Baud Rate:** 115200  
- **Data Bits:** 8  
- **Parity:** None  
- **Stop Bits:** 1  

---

## Teleoperation (Manual Control)

To manually control the robot, send **`UCP_MOTOR_CTL` (ID: 0x02)** packets.  
These packets contain the desired **linear** and **angular velocity**.

---

## Control Packet Structure (`ucp_ctl_cmd_t`)

The command packet is composed of a **header**, a **payload**, and a **CRC checksum**.  
The **motor control payload** is defined as follows:

| Field     | Type      | Description                                                                 |
|-----------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `hd`      | `ucp_hd_t`| UCP Header (contains length, ID=0x02, index)                                |
| `speed`   | `int16_t` | Desired linear velocity. Positive = forward, negative = backward. Range: -100 to 100. |
| `angular` | `int16_t` | Desired angular velocity. Positive = right, negative = left. Range: -100 to 100. |
| `front_led` | `int16_t` | Controls the front LEDs (not fully implemented).                          |
| `back_led`  | `int16_t` | Controls the back LEDs (not fully implemented).                           |
| `...`       | `...`     | Reserved fields.                                                          |

---

## Getting Started: A Simple Teleop Example

Look to `src/examples/move.cpp`

# Camera Example

## Getting Started: Dual Camera Streaming Over RTSP

Look to `src/Examples/sample_demo_dual_camera.c`
#### Run the example code on the Earth Rover Mini
- Build Examples
- Push `sample_demo_dual_camera` to device via ADB
```
adb push sample_demo_dual_camera /tmp/
```
- Run example
```
adb shell /tmp/sample_demo_dual_camera -s 0 -W 1920 -H 1080 -w 720 -h 576 -f 30 -r 0 -s 1 -W 1920 -H 1080 -w 720 -h 576 -f 30 -r 0 -n 1 -b 1
```
#### Capture video from the Earth Rover Mini camera on the computer
- Connect with Earth Rover Mini with same local network.
- Use Python Opencv
```python
import cv2
'''
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/0  Front camera main-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/1  Front camera sub-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/2  Rear camera main-stream
rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/3  Rear camera sub-stream
'''
cap = cv2.VideoCapture("rtsp://<Earth Rover Mini IP>/live/0")
if not cap.isOpened():
    print("Failed to open RTSP stream")
    exit()
while True:
    ret, frame = cap.read()
    if not ret:
        print("Failed to read frame")
        break
    cv2.imshow("RTSP Stream", frame)
    if cv2.waitKey(1) & 0xFF == ord("q"):
        break

cap.release()
cv2.destroyAllWindows()
```
